All characters are now assigned to teams and in the perception component we
can determine whether the observed actor is our enemy or not.
For this purpose, we will create a special function in STUUtils. First, let's include the header file player state.
The function will return a boolean value, it will be static. Let's call it AreEnemies.
It will have two parameters of the AController type: Controller1 and Controller2.
At the beginning of the function, check that the controllers are not null.
And also check that these are not the same controller.
The function can be called from anywhere, so it's worth taking care of that.
Next, we get a pointer to the player state of each of the controllers.
The function will return true if the player state is not null
and if the TeamIDs do not match. The TeamID value is obtained using the GetTeamID function.
The function is written, now let's use it. Return to the perception component.
The function takes two controllers. We already have one pointer to the controller - this is the component owner's controller.
We need to get the second one. Let's cast PercieveActor to pawn. Let's call the pointer PercievePawn.
Let's create a local boolean variable and write a condition in which two characters are enemies.
The first condition that must be met is that the PercievePawn pointer must not be null.
And the second is the value returned by the AreEnemies function. We pass in it the controller of the owner of the component
and also the controller of PercievePawn.
Add the AreEnemies condition to the if. If the current pawn is not our enemy, then we do not even consider it as a candidate for BestPawn.
The AreEnemies function is static - therefore it is available in any class and can be used
in other situations, for example, you can add logic so that members of the same team
do not harm each other. There is a controller parameter in the OnTakeAnyDamage function that caused the damage,
so you can call the AreEnemies function with the given controller and the pawn controller that owns the health component.
Before starting, let's open the blueprint game mode and set a more
adequate round time, for example, 120 seconds and let the number of players be 3.
Compile. We launch.
We kill the enemy. NPC, who with us on the same team does not shoot at us. We can also turn on debug information
and check that we are really determined. A blue debug sphere is displayed, but the NPC does not respond to us.